joined Now by Hassan barari professor of
international uh Affairs at Qatar
University thanks very much for being
with us here than for having me just I
just want to get your reaction first of
all to Anthony blinken's statement that
90% of this deal has already been agreed
what do you make of the last 10% that
it's obviously very difficult we heard a
little bit there about the Philadelphia
Corridor as one of the main issues how
difficult is it going to be to get the
the last 10% done well thas as they say
same all same all I mean I've been uh
listening to Blink for like couple of
months talking about Bridging the Gap
and a few differences here and there
that he could Aron out but you know we
ended up with netanyahu's firm position
in in two press conferences when he made
it perfectly clear that Israel would
never withdraw from this Corridor and he
even call it the gateway to Iran I mean
he is trying to give it a meaning or a
security uh kind of protects in order to
uh justify a presence of the Israeli
military there h n I think has a a
broader game a bigger game even a deeper
one than what Lincoln is thinking of uh
so I think it's not about now the detail
the 90% that he's talking about it's
about the fact that the Palestinians are
being under occupation and Israel should
withdraw now here the bottom line for
the Palestinian is the Philadelphia
Corridor and netan is just telling them
don't even dream of that and this is you
know this is where it counts do you
think it's fair to say uh that for nyaho
to accept any uh deal that would
essentially mean the collapse of his
coalition government and therefore that
could be the end of his political career
you know this is the U the conventional
wisdom in in Israel and all you know all
around the world that you know if
Netanyahu uh agrees to a deal then
rightwing uh like SM B would walk out of
his government and then it's going to
fall apart and we had the Precedence of
that when Netanyahu signed the wover
memorandum in 1998 and then he lost the
L power so this is one thing but this is
something else you know he has an option
he has some alternative he can even uh
fire them and bring the Leed anded was
telling him clearly that he would agree
for ceasefire and give the government
what they call the safety network uh and
and and and this is very important for
him but also there's something more
important I think the when while Nan has
an option alternative the rightwing
members don't have one because if they
leave they're going to lose and polls
are showing that they're not even going
to make it next election so I think
netan can can play it smartly but netan
is manipulating the situation to prolong
the war to perpetuate it and perpetuate
the misery of the Palestinians hoping
that he would get off the hawk when it
comes to the judicial uh aspect of of
his political Survivor a lot has been
made about the pressure that Netanyahu
is under both domestically and
internationally but at this point in
time it doesn't really seem like it's
anywhere near enough to actually Force
his hand and and cut a ceasefire deal
does it what do you think that is well
there's one thing here that you know for
a ceasefire to materialize I think we
need to see more American pressure and
and just recently uh I I hear some
leakage from American officials saying
that you know if if Netanyahu H won't
accept their um Virgin of a deal they
will come up with a unilateral one with
Hamas because there are some Four
soldiers or four sorry four Americans
captive and in in Gaza and they want to
uh exchange them have like a swap with
some Palestinian prisoners in in the
United States uh so Biden is committed
to his own people as well but here we
see that netan is even jeopardizing
American life for his own political game
I think this implicit Threat by the
American
Administration if it followed up by
action I think this would probably
change the calculus of Netanyahu okay
we'll have to leave it there but thank
you so much for for your insight into
all of this fascinating as always H
barari there thank you